Integrate task resource (#237)
iterative/terraform-provider-iterative: docs/resources/task.md

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "iterative_task" "task" {
  name  = "example"
  cloud = "aws"

  environment = {GREETING = "Hello, world!"}
  directory   = "${path.root}/results"

  script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    echo "$GREETING" | tee $(uuidgen)
  END
}
```

## Argument Reference

### Required

- `name` - (Required) Task name.
- `cloud` - (Required) Cloud provider to run the task on; valid values are `aws`, `gcp`, `az` and `k8s`.
- `script` - (Required) Script to run; must begin with a valid [shebang](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)>).

### Optional

- `region` - (Optional) Cloud region/zone to run the task on.
- `machine` - (Optional) See [Machine Types](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/resources/task#machine-types) below.
- `disk_size` - (Optional) Size of the ephemeral machine storage.
- `spot` - (Optional) Spot instance price. `-1`: disabled, `0`: automatic price, any other positive number: fixed price.
- `image` - (Optional) Machine image to run the task with.
- `parallelism` - (Optional) Number of machines to be launched in parallel.
- `directory` - (Optional) Local directory to synchronize.

> - `environment` - (Optional) Environment variables to run the task with.

Author: ```suggestion
- `environment` - (Optional) Environment variables to run the task with; empty values will cause the provider to retrieve them from the local environment.
```

Author: For example, `PATH` below will be loaded from the local environment.

```hcl
environment = {
  PATH = ""
  CUSTOM = "VALUE"
}
```

Author: @casperdcl, can you please bless this with your descriptive clarity?

Reviewer: aha! https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/pull/237#discussion_r747892116 :)

Reviewer: vis. https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/pull/237#discussion_r747897237

# Task Resource

This resource will:

1. Create cloud resources (storage, machines) for the task
2. Upload the given `directory` to the cloud storage, if specified
3. Run the given `script` upon completion or `timeout` in the cloud

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "iterative_task" "task" {
  name  = "example"
  cloud = "aws"

  environment = {GREETING = "Hello, world!"}
  directory   = "${path.root}/shared"

  script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    echo "$GREETING" | tee $(uuidgen)
  END
}
```

## Argument Reference

### Required

- `name` - (Required) Task name.

> - `cloud` - (Required) Cloud provider to run the task on; valid values are `aws`, `gcp`, `az` and `k8s`.

Reviewer 2: Are we just assuming people know how to pass these arguments? It's not shown in the **Example Usage** block.

> - `cloud` - (Required) Cloud provider to run the task on; valid values are `aws`, `gcp`, `az` and `k8s`.

Reviewer 2: Are we just assuming people know how to pass these arguments? It's not shown in the **Example Usage** block.

Author: As far as I know, the `cloud` attribute is part of the **Example Usage** section, but not every attribute has been included in the examples. Would you prefer examples to cover every attribute with example values?

Author: It's safe to assume that people knows how to specify them. Still, it would be nice to show examples for every argument as part of the **Getting Started** guide. Adding to https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/pull/237#issue-1048177975...

> - `script` - (Required) Script to run; must begin with a valid [shebang](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)>).

Author: Users can always resort to [`file`](https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/functions/file.html) to use a file instead of an inline script. Would you like to include this in the argument description? It looks like a nice addition.

> - `script` - (Required) Script to run; must begin with a valid [shebang](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)>).

Author: ```suggestion
- `script` - (Required) Script to run; must begin with a valid [shebang](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)>); can be specified as a [heredoc](https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/expressions/strings.html#heredoc-strings) or loaded from a separate [`file`](https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/functions/file.html).
```

> - `script` - (Required) Script to run; must begin with a valid [shebang](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)>).

Author: 74cedc0

### Optional

> - `region` - (Optional) Cloud region/zone to run the task on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `region` - (Optional) [Cloud region/zone](#cloud-regions) to run the task on.
```

> - `machine` - (Optional) See [Machine Types](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/resources/task#machine-types) below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `machine` - (Optional) See [Machine Types](#machine-types) below.
```

- `disk_size` - (Optional) Size of the ephemeral machine storage.
- `spot` - (Optional) Spot instance price. `-1`: disabled, `0`: automatic price, any other positive number: fixed price.

> - `image` - (Optional) Machine image to run the task with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `image` - (Optional) [Machine image](#machine-images) to run the task with.
```

- `parallelism` - (Optional) Number of machines to be launched in parallel.
- `directory` - (Optional) Local directory to synchronize.

> - `environment` - (Optional) Environment variables to run the task with; empty values will be automatically replaced with local environment values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `environment` - (Optional) Map of environment variable names and values for the task script. Empty string values are replaced with local environment values.
```

- `timeout` - (Optional) Maximum number of seconds to run before termination.

## Attribute Reference

In addition to all arguments above, the following attributes are exported:

- `ssh_public_key` - Used to access the created machines.
- `ssh_private_key` - Used to access the created machines.
- `addresses` - IP addresses of the currently active machines.
- `status` - Status of the machine orchestrator.
- `events` - List of events for the machine orchestrator.
- `logs` - List with task logs; one for each machine.

> ~> **Note** Status and events don't produce a stable output between cloud providers and are intended for human consumption only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note**: Status and events don't produce a stable output between cloud
> providers and are intended for human consumption only.
```

## Machine Type

### Generic

The Iterative Provider offers some common machine sizes which are roughly the same
for all supported clouds.

#### No GPU

- `m` - Medium, with (at least), 8 CPU cores and 16 GB of RAM.
- `l` - Large, with (at least) 32 CPU cores and 64 GB of RAM.
- `xl` - Extra large, with (at least) 64 CPU cores and 128 GB of RAM.

#### NVIDIA Tesla K80 GPU

- `m+k80` - Medium, with (at least) 4 CPU cores, 53 GB of RAM and 1 GPU device.
- `l+k80` - Large, with (at least) 12 CPU cores, 112 GB of RAM and 2 GPU devices.
- `xl+k80` - Extra large, with (at least) 24 CPU cores, 212 GB of RAM and 4 GPU devices.

#### NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPU

- `m+v100` - Medium, with (at least) 4 CPU cores, 61 GB of RAM and 1 GPU device.
- `l+v100` - Large, with (at least) 12 CPU cores, 224 GB of RAM and 2 GPU devices.

> - `xl+v100` - Extra large, with (at least) 24 CPU cores, 448 GB of RAM and 4 GPU devices.

Author: > _based on `iterative/*/provider.go`_

Did you mean `task/**.go`? 😉

> - `xl+v100` - Extra large, with (at least) 24 CPU cores, 448 GB of RAM and 4 GPU devices.

Author: I'm inclined to think that people who care about the exact machine type will also specify whatever type they want instead of using those common “sizes” though.

> - `xl+v100` - Extra large, with (at least) 24 CPU cores, 448 GB of RAM and 4 GPU devices.

Author: | Type      | Minimum                                                | `aws`         | `az`                | `gcp`                                             | `k8s`                                                  |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `m`       | 8 CPU cores<br>16 GB of RAM                            | `m5.2xlarge`  | `Standard_F8s_v2`   | `e2-custom-8-32768`                               | `cpu: 8`<br>`memory: 32G`                              | 
| `l`       | 32 CPU cores<br>64 GB of RAM                           | `m5.8xlarge`  | `Standard_F32s_v2`  | `e2-custom-32-131072`                             | `cpu: 32`<br>`memory: 128G`                            | 
| `xl`      | 64 CPU cores<br>128 GB of RAM                          | `m5.16xlarge` | `Standard_F64s_v2`  | `n2-custom-64-262144`                             | `cpu: 64`<br>`memory: 256G`                            | 
| `m+k80`   | 4 CPU cores<br>53 GB of RAM<br>1 × NVIDIA Tesla K80    | `p2.xlarge`   | `Standard_NC6`      | `custom-8-53248`<br>1 × `nvidia-tesla-k80`        | `cpu: 4`<br>`memory: 64G`<br>1 × `nvidia-tesla-k80`    | 
| `l+k80`   | 12 CPU cores<br>112 GB of RAM<br>2 × NVIDIA Tesla K80  | `p2.8xlarge`  | `Standard_NC12`     | `custom-32-131072`<br>4 × `nvidia-tesla-k80`      | `cpu: 32`<br>`memory: 512G`<br>8 × `nvidia-tesla-k80`  | 
| `xl+k80`  | 24 CPU cores<br>212 GB of RAM<br>4 × NVIDIA Tesla K80  | `p2.16xlarge` | `Standard_NC24`     | `custom-64-212992-ext`<br>8 × `nvidia-tesla-k80`  | `cpu: 64`<br>`memory: 768G`<br>16 × `nvidia-tesla-k80` | 
| `m+v100`  | 4 CPU cores<br>61 GB of RAM<br>1 × NVIDIA Tesla V100   | `p3.xlarge`   | `Standard_NC6s_v3`  | `custom-8-65536-ext`<br>1 × `nvidia-tesla-v100`   | `cpu: 8`<br>`memory: 64G`<br>1 × `nvidia-tesla-v100`   | 
| `l+v100`  | 12 CPU cores<br>224 GB of RAM<br>2 × NVIDIA Tesla V100 | `p3.8xlarge`  | `Standard_NC12s_v3` | `custom-32-262144-ext`<br>4 × `nvidia-tesla-v100` | `cpu: 32`<br>`memory: 256G`<br>4 × `nvidia-tesla-v100` | 
| `xl+v100` | 24 CPU cores<br>448 GB of RAM<br>4 × NVIDIA Tesla V100 | `p3.16xlarge` | `Standard_NC24s_v3` | `custom-64-524288-ext`<br>8 × `nvidia-tesla-v100` | `cpu: 64`<br>`memory: 512G`<br>8 × `nvidia-tesla-v100` |

> - `xl+v100` - Extra large, with (at least) 24 CPU cores, 448 GB of RAM and 4 GPU devices.

Author: Commented with the table above to disambiguate taste from laziness. 😉 I still believe that it's too much information for users who rely on default values, and pointless for those who don't.

> - `xl+v100` - Extra large, with (at least) 24 CPU cores, 448 GB of RAM and 4 GPU devices.

Reviewer 3: IMO the helper types should not contain a flood of information and just give general specs. I would include a footnote that links to the above table for reference but I don't think it should be present in the first explanation of `Type` options

> - `xl+v100` - Extra large, with (at least) 24 CPU cores, 448 GB of RAM and 4 GPU devices.

Author: <kbd>won't “fix”</kbd> on this pull request, but added to https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/pull/237#issue-776178285 as a potential follow–up.

> - `xl+v100` - Extra large, with (at least) 24 CPU cores, 448 GB of RAM and 4 GPU devices.

Reviewer: sure - but that table is awesome, thx.

### Cloud-specific

In addition to generic types, it's possible to specify any machine type
supported by the underlying cloud provider.

#### Amazon Web Services

- `{machine}` - Any [EC2 instance type](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-explorer) (e.g. `g4dn.xlarge`).

#### Google Cloud Platform

- `{machine}` - Any [GCP machine type](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types) (e.g. `n2-custom-64-262144`).
- `{machine}+{accelerator}*{count}` - Any machine and accelerator combination (e.g. `custom-8-53248+nvidia-tesla-k80*1`).

#### Microsoft Azure

- `{machine}` - Any [Azure VM](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/vm-selector) (e.g. `Standard_F8s_v2`).

#### Kubernetes

- `{cpu}-{memory}` - Any [CPU & memory combination](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers) (e.g. `64-256000`).
- `{cpu}-{memory}+{accelerator}*{count}` - Any CPU, memory, & [accelerator](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-gpus/scheduling-gpus) combination (e.g. `64-256000+nvidia-tesla-k80*1`).

> -> **Note** Specified resource amounts are considered **limits** (rather than **requests**).
> 
> -> **Note** `{accelerator}` will be transformed into a node selector requesting `accelerator={accelerator}` and `{count}` will be configured as the **limits** count for `kubernetes.io/gpu`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note**: Specified resource amounts are considered **limits** (rather than
> **requests**).

> **Note**: `{accelerator}` will be transformed into a node selector requesting
> `accelerator={accelerator}` and `{count}` will be configured as the **limits**
> count for `kubernetes.io/gpu`.
```

- `{architecture}` - Image architecture; e.g. `x86_64` or `*` for any.
- `{owner}` - Account number of the image owner; e.g. `099720109477` or `*` for any.
- `{name}` - Name of the image; e.g. `*ubuntu/images/hvm-ssd/ubuntu-focal-20.04*`.

See https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html for more information.

#### Google Cloud Platform

`{user}@{project}/{family}`

Fields:

- `{user}` - User name; e.g. `ubuntu`.
- `{project}` - Project name; e.g. `ubuntu-os-cloud`.
- `{family}` - Image architecture; e.g. `ubuntu-2004-lts`.

See https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/images/os-details for more information.

#### Microsoft Azure

`{user}@{publisher}:{offer}:{sku}:{version}`

Fields:

- `{user}` - User name; e.g. `ubuntu`.
- `{publisher}` - Image publisher; e.g. `Canonical`.
- `{offer}` - Image offer; e.g. `UbuntuServer`.
- `{sku}` - Image SKU; e.g. `18.04-LTS`.
- `{version}` - Image version; e.g. `latest`.

See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/cli-ps-findimage for more information.

### Kubernetes

- `{image}` - Any [container image](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/#image-names).

## Cloud Regions

### Generic

> The Iterative Provider offers some common cloud regions which are roughly the same

Reviewer 2: Should this section happen before **Machine Types/Images**, since it's mentioned and linked first?

Reviewer 2: And how about compressing the contents of these last 3 sections in `<details>` blocks? Just a thought

Author: Those sections don't really belong to the standard resource documentation structure, but nesting them under the **Argument Reference** section was a bit too much and removed them from the side bar.

Author: Perhaps `<details>` is too hidden for some users, but I acknowledge that having all that information spread on the page might be a bit too much.

Author: Referencing on https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/pull/237#issue-776178285

#### Google Cloud Platform

- `{zone}` - Any [GCP **zone**](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones) (not region) (e.g. `us-east1-a`).

#### Microsoft Azure

- `{region}` - Any [Azure region](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/geographies) (e.g. `eastus`).

### Kubernetes

The `region` attribute is ignored.

## Known Issues

### Kubernetes

#### Region attribute

Setting the `region` attribute results in undefined behaviour.

#### Directory string format

Unlike public cloud providers, Kubernetes does not offer any portable way of persisting and sharing storage between pods. When specified, the `directory` attribute will create a `PersistentVolumeClaim` with the same lifecycle as the task.

- `{storage_class}:{size}` or
- `{storage_class}:{size}:{path}`

Fields:

- `{storage_class}` - Name of the storage class; e.g. `local-path`.
- `{size}` - Size in gigabytes.
- `{path}` - Local path to synchronize; equivalent to the whole `directory` attribute on public cloud providers. When unspecified, persistent volumes will just be used as a cache and local file synchronization will be disabled.

> ~> **Warning** Access mode will be `ReadWriteOnce` for `parallelism` equal to 1 or `ReadWriteMany` otherwise.
> 
> -> **Note** Rancher's [Local Path Provisioner](https://github.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner) might be the easiest way of deploying a quick `ReadWriteOnce` dynamically allocated storage solution for testing: just run `kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner/master/deploy/local-path-storage.yaml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Warning!**: Access mode will be `ReadWriteOnce` for `parallelism` equal
> to 1 or `ReadWriteMany` otherwise.

> **Note**: Rancher's
> [Local Path Provisioner](https://github.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner)
> might be the easiest way of deploying a quick `ReadWriteOnce` dynamically
> allocated storage solution for testing: just run
> `kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner/master/deploy/local-path-storage.yaml`.
```

Author: Do you _really_ want to add a colon immediately after an exclamation mark‽

Author: ```suggestion
~> **Warning**: Access mode will be `ReadWriteOnce` for `parallelism` equal to 1 or `ReadWriteMany` otherwise.

-> **Note**: Rancher's [Local Path Provisioner](https://github.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner) might be the easiest way of deploying a quick `ReadWriteOnce` dynamically allocated storage solution for testing: just run `kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner/master/deploy/local-path-storage.yaml`.
```

Author: Assuming that `Warning!:` wasn't intentional. If that's not the case, feel free to commit the change.

# Task Resource

Task, consisting of one or more cloud machines that run a given `script` upon

> completion or `timeout`, sharing a common network and a storage `directory`.

Author: 1. Clearly not: see _“consisting of one **or more** cloud machines”_
2. A task runs a task script, also known as _script_ and nothing else.
3. Yes
4. Yes
5. Yes

> completion or `timeout`, sharing a common network and a storage `directory`.

Author: Probably 4, but yes, wording leaves room — a big one — for improvement.

> completion or `timeout`, sharing a common network and a storage `directory`.

Reviewer: happy with your rewording

> completion or `timeout`, sharing a common network and a storage `directory`.

Author: 😅  I still find it can be immensely improved, but we can follow–up after merging.

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "iterative_task" "task" {
  name  = "example"
  cloud = "aws"

  environment = {GREETING = "Hello, world!"}
  directory   = path.root

  script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash

>     echo "$GREETING" | tee result-$(uuidgen)

Author: ```console
tee: /···/results/···: No such file or directory
```

It doesn't work like that: remote paths are relative to `directory` and not to `path.root`

>   directory   = path.root
> 
>   script = <<-END
>     #!/bin/bash
>     echo "$GREETING" | tee result-$(uuidgen)

Author: ```suggestion
  directory   = "${path.root}/results"

  script = <<-END
    #!/bin/bash
    echo "$GREETING" | tee $(uuidgen)
```

>     echo "$GREETING" | tee result-$(uuidgen)

Author: ...if anything

  END
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are required:

- `name` - (Required) Name of the task.
- `cloud` - (Required) Cloud provider to run the task on; valid values are `aws`, `gcp`, `az` and `k8s`.
- `script` - (Required) Script to run; must begin with a valid [shebang](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)>).

The following arguments are optional:

- `region` - (Optional) Cloud region / zone to run the task on.
- `machine` - (Optional) Machine type; see the Machine Types section below.
- `disk_size` - (Optional) Size of the ephemeral machine storage.
- `spot` - (Optional) Spot configuration: `-1` means disabled, `0` means enabled with automatic price, and any other positive number sets a fixed price.
- `image` - (Optional) Machine image to run the task with.
- `parallelism` - (Optional) Number of machines to be launched in parallel.
- `directory` - (Optional) Local directory to synchronize.
- `environment` - (Optional) Environment variables

> - `timeout` - (Optional) Timeout for the task, in seconds.

Author: Those `(Required)` and `(Optional)` annotations are by convention. Please refer to Terraform documentation on documenting providers (a tad meta) for more information.

> The following arguments are required:
> 
> - `name` - (Required) Name of the task.
> - `cloud` - (Required) Cloud provider to run the task on; valid values are `aws`, `gcp`, `az` and `k8s`.
> - `script` - (Required) Script to run; must begin with a valid [shebang](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)>).
> 
> The following arguments are optional:
> 
> - `region` - (Optional) Cloud region / zone to run the task on.
> - `machine` - (Optional) Machine type; see the Machine Types section below.
> - `disk_size` - (Optional) Size of the ephemeral machine storage.
> - `spot` - (Optional) Spot configuration: `-1` means disabled, `0` means enabled with automatic price, and any other positive number sets a fixed price.
> - `image` - (Optional) Machine image to run the task with.
> - `parallelism` - (Optional) Number of machines to be launched in parallel.
> - `directory` - (Optional) Local directory to synchronize.
> - `environment` - (Optional) Environment variables
> - `timeout` - (Optional) Timeout for the task, in seconds.

Author: ```suggestion
### Required

- `name` - (Required) Task name.
- `cloud` - (Required) Cloud provider to run the task on; valid values are `aws`, `gcp`, `az` and `k8s`.
- `script` - (Required) Script to run; must begin with a valid [shebang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)).

### Optional

- `region` - (Optional) Cloud region/zone to run the task on.
- `machine` - (Optional) See [Machine Types](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/resources/task#machine-types) below.
- `disk_size` - (Optional) Size of the ephemeral machine storage.
- `spot` - (Optional) Spot instance price. `-1`: disabled, `0`: automatic price, any other positive number: fixed price.
- `image` - (Optional) Machine image to run the task with.
- `parallelism` - (Optional) Number of machines to be launched in parallel.
- `directory` - (Optional) Local directory to synchronize.
- `environment` - (Optional) Environment variables to run the task with.
- `timeout` - (Optional) Maximum number of seconds to run before termination.
```

"Environment variables" in what supported format(s)?

> The following arguments are required:
> 
> - `name` - (Required) Name of the task.
> - `cloud` - (Required) Cloud provider to run the task on; valid values are `aws`, `gcp`, `az` and `k8s`.
> - `script` - (Required) Script to run; must begin with a valid [shebang](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)>).
> 
> The following arguments are optional:
> 
> - `region` - (Optional) Cloud region / zone to run the task on.
> - `machine` - (Optional) Machine type; see the Machine Types section below.
> - `disk_size` - (Optional) Size of the ephemeral machine storage.
> - `spot` - (Optional) Spot configuration: `-1` means disabled, `0` means enabled with automatic price, and any other positive number sets a fixed price.
> - `image` - (Optional) Machine image to run the task with.
> - `parallelism` - (Optional) Number of machines to be launched in parallel.
> - `directory` - (Optional) Local directory to synchronize.
> - `environment` - (Optional) Environment variables
> - `timeout` - (Optional) Timeout for the task, in seconds.

Author: ```suggestion
### Required

- `name` - (Required) Task name.
- `cloud` - (Required) Cloud provider to run the task on; valid values are `aws`, `gcp`, `az` and `k8s`.
- `script` - (Required) Script to run; must begin with a valid [shebang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)).

### Optional

- `region` - (Optional) Cloud region/zone to run the task on.
- `machine` - (Optional) See [Machine Types](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/iterative/iterative/latest/docs/resources/task#machine-types) below.
- `disk_size` - (Optional) Size of the ephemeral machine storage.
- `spot` - (Optional) Spot instance price. `-1`: disabled, `0`: automatic price, any other positive number: fixed price.
- `image` - (Optional) Machine image to run the task with.
- `parallelism` - (Optional) Number of machines to be launched in parallel.
- `directory` - (Optional) Local directory to synchronize.
- `environment` - (Optional) Environment variables to run the task with.
- `timeout` - (Optional) Maximum number of seconds to run before termination.
```

"Environment variables" in what supported format(s)?

> - `timeout` - (Optional) Timeout for the task, in seconds.

Author: Environment variables as a `map[string]string`, obviously... or not.

> - `timeout` - (Optional) Timeout for the task, in seconds.

Reviewer: I would mention `{'VAR': 'value'}`... some "obvious" alternatives would be `'VAR'` (inferred from user env) or `'VAR=value'`

> - `timeout` - (Optional) Timeout for the task, in seconds.

Reviewer: continued in https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/pull/237#discussion_r746862389

> - `timeout` - (Optional) Timeout for the task, in seconds.

Author: Actually, the only valid syntax is `environment = {"VAR" = "foo", "BOO" = "far"}` with equal signs. 🙃  Trivial for Terraform users, but not necessarily obvious. Feel free to extend with examples or a link to the [official documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/expressions/types.html#map).

## Attribute Reference

In addition to all arguments above, the following attributes are exported:

- `ssh_public_key` - SSH public key to access the created machines.
- `ssh_private_key` - SSH private key to access the created machines.
- `addresses` - IP addresses of the currently active machines.
- `status` - Status of the machine orchestrator.
- `events` - List of events for the machine orchestrator.

> - `logs` - List with task logs, one for each machine.

Author: List means [`list`](https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/expressions/types.html#list) and nothing else.

~> **Note** Status and events don't produce a stable output between cloud providers and are intended for human consumption only.

## Machine Sizes

### Generic

This provider offers some common machine sizes that are roughly the same for all
the supported cloud providers.

#### Without GPU

- `m` - Medium, with roughly 8 CPU cores and 32 GB of RAM.
- `l` - Large, with roughly 32 CPU cores and 128 GB of RAM.

> - `xl` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores and 256 GB of RAM.

Author: Then, https://iterativeai.slack.com/archives/C01900GSB4J/p1635720602072100

> - `xl` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores and 256 GB of RAM.

Author: Feel free to open a follow–up issue from that comment.

> - `xl` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores and 256 GB of RAM.

Author: https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/issues/158#issuecomment-934826522

> - `xl` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores and 256 GB of RAM.

Reviewer: yes but can we at least give links and/or ranges (e.g. 32-96 cores, or `roughly[^1] ... [^1]: +- 50%` etc)?

> - `xl` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores and 256 GB of RAM.

Author: From the original implementation draft:
* [AZ](https://github.com/0x2b3bfa0/xpd/blob/0ef49cc6dcf94f0ff445bda871d2cd207b128122/task/microsoft/constants/constants.go#L12-L100)
* [GCP](https://github.com/0x2b3bfa0/xpd/blob/0ef49cc6dcf94f0ff445bda871d2cd207b128122/task/google/constants/constants.go#L12-L91)
* [AWS](https://github.com/0x2b3bfa0/xpd/blob/0ef49cc6dcf94f0ff445bda871d2cd207b128122/task/amazon/constants/constants.go#L12-L91)
* [K8S](https://github.com/0x2b3bfa0/xpd/blob/5cf3b2dd005d2dbad9b499bd628c26fd17160c2e/task/kubernetes/resources/resource_job.go#L59-L67)

> - `xl` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores and 256 GB of RAM.

Author: Those are exact quantities, copied from the provider documentation when applicable.

> - `xl` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores and 256 GB of RAM.

Author: Should we do the number crunching and give an error percentage... for our errors? 😄

> - `xl` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores and 256 GB of RAM.

Author: ### AZ
| `machine` | cores | memory | accelerators |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| m | 8|16 GB|0|
|l| 32|64 GB|0|
|xl| 64|128 GB|0|
| m+k80| 6|56 GB|1|
|l+k80 |12|112 GB|2|
|xl+k80 |24|225 GB|4|
|m+v100| 6|112 GB|1|
|l+v100 |12|224 GB|2|
|xl+v100 |24|448 GB|4|

### GCP
| `machine` | cores | memory | accelerators |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| m | 8|32 GiB|0|
|l| 32|131 GiB|0|
|xl| 64|262 GiB|0|
| m+k80| 8|53 GiB|1|
| l+k80| 32|131 GiB|4|
| xl+k80| 64|212 GiB|8|
| m+v100| 8|65 GiB|1|
| l+v100| 32|262 GiB|4|
| xl+v100| 64|524 GiB|8|

### AWS
| `machine` | cores | memory | accelerators |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| m | 8|32 GB|0|
|l| 32|128 GB|0|
|xl| 64|256 GB|0|
| m+k80| 4|61 GB|1|
| l+k80| 32|488 GB|8|
| xl+k80| 64|732 GB|16|
| m+v100| 8|61 GB|1|
| l+v100| 32|244 GB|4|
| xl+v100| 64|488 GB|8|

### K8S
| `machine` | cores | memory | accelerators |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| m | 8|32 GB|0|
|l| 32|128 GB|0|
|xl| 64|256 GB|0|
| m+k80| 4|64 GB|1|
| l+k80| 32|512 GB|8|
| xl+k80| 64|768 GB|16|
| m+v100| 8|64 GB|1|
| l+v100| 32|256 GB|4|
| xl+v100| 64|512 GB|8|

> - `xl` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores and 256 GB of RAM.

Author: In two words: obnoxiously off.

> - `xl` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores and 256 GB of RAM.

Author: ### MIN(AWS, AZ, GCP, K8S)
| `machine` | cores | memory | accelerators |
|:-------:|:-----:|:------:|:------------:|
| m       |     8 |     16 |            0 |
| l       |    32 |     64 |            0 |
| xl      |    64 |    128 |            0 |
| m+k80   |     4 |     53 |            1 |
| l+k80   |    12 |    112 |            2 |
| xl+k80  |    24 |    212 |            4 |
| m+v100  |     6 |     61 |            1 |
| l+v100  |    12 |    224 |            2 |
| xl+v100 |    24 |    448 |            4 |

> - `xl` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores and 256 GB of RAM.

Author: Resolved with 739955bf1943bb25a1d3711ce232f4d5ff67676b, unless you find a better alternative

#### With NVIDIA Tesla K80 GPU

- `m+k80` - Medium, with roughly 8 CPU cores, 32 GB of RAM and 1 GPU device.
- `l+k80` - Large, with roughly 32 CPU cores, 128 GB of RAM and 8 GPU devices.

> - `xl+k80` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores, 512 GB of RAM and 16 GPU devices.

Author: I'm afraid machine specification aren't as mathematically rational as you are. That's (rougly) the number offered by vendors.

> - `xl+k80` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores, 512 GB of RAM and 16 GPU devices.

Author: https://github.com/iterative/terraform-provider-iterative/issues/158

#### With NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPU

- `m+v100` - Medium, with roughly 8 CPU cores, 32 GB of RAM and 1 GPU device.
- `l+v100` - Large, with roughly 32 CPU cores, 128 GB of RAM and 8 GPU devices.

> - `xl+v100` - Extra large, with roughly 64 CPU cores, 512 GB of RAM and 16 GPU devices.

Author: See above

### Cloud-specific

In addition to generic sizes, it's possible to specify any machine type
supported by the underlying cloud provider.

#### Amazon Web Services

- `{machine}` - Any cloud-specific machine type, like `p3.16xlarge`.

See https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-explorer for more information.

#### Google Cloud Platform

- `{machine}` - Any cloud-specific machine type, like `n2-custom-64-262144`.
- `{machine}+{accelerator}*{count}` - Any machine and accelerator combination, like `custom-8-53248+nvidia-tesla-k80*1`.

See https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types for more information.

#### Microsoft Azure

- `{machine}` - Any cloud-specific machine type, like `Standard_F8s_v2`.

See https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/vm-selector for more information.

> ### Kubernetes

Author: Was purposeful, but it makes sense to keep it consistent

- `{cpu}-{memory}` - Any CPU + memory combination, like `64-256000`.
- `{cpu}-{memory}+{accelerator}*{count}` - Any CPU + memory + accelerator combination, like `64-256000+nvidia-tesla-k80*1`.

See https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers and https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/manage-gpus/scheduling-gpus for more information.

> -> **Note** Specified resource amounts will be considered as **limits** and not as **requests**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> **Note** Specified resource amounts are considered **limits** (rather than **requests**).
```

-> **Note** `{accelerator}` will be transformed into a node selector requesting `accelerator={accelerator}` and `{count}` will be configured as the **limits** count for `kubernetes.io/gpu`.

## Machine Images

### Generic

> This provider offers some common machine images that are roughly the same for
> all the supported cloud providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Iterative Provider offers some common machine images which are roughly the same
for all supported clouds.
```

- `ubuntu` - Official Ubuntu LTS image, currently 20.04.

### Cloud-specific

In addition to generic images, it's possible to specify any machine image
supported by the underlying cloud provider.

#### Amazon Web Services

`{user}@{architecture}:{owner}:{name}`

Fields:

- `{user}` - User name; e.g. `ubuntu`.

> - `{architecture}` — Image architecture; e.g. `x86_64` or `*` for any.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `{architecture}` - Image architecture; e.g. `x86_64` or `*` for any.
```

- `{owner}` - Account number of the image owner; e.g. `099720109477` or `*` for any.
- `{name}` - Name of the image; e.g. `*ubuntu/images/hvm-ssd/ubuntu-focal-20.04*`.

See https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AMIs.html for more information.

#### Google Cloud Platform

`{user}@{project}/{family}`

Fields:

- `{user}` - User name; e.g. `ubuntu`.
- `{project}` - Project name; e.g. `ubuntu-os-cloud`.

> - `{family}` — Image architecture; e.g. `ubuntu-2004-lts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `{family}` - Image architecture; e.g. `ubuntu-2004-lts`.
```

Author: [Sorry!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dash#En_dash)

See https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/images/os-details for more information.

#### Microsoft Azure

`{user}@{publisher}:{offer}:{sku}:{version}`

Fields:

- `{user}` - User name; e.g. `ubuntu`.
- `{publisher}` - Image publisher; e.g. `Canonical`.
- `{offer}` - Image offer; e.g. `UbuntuServer`.
- `{sku}` - Image SKU; e.g. `18.04-LTS`.
- `{version}` - Image version; e.g. `latest`.

See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/cli-ps-findimage for more information.

### Kubernetes

- `{image}` - Any [container image](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/images/#image-names).

## Cloud Regions

### Generic

This provider offers some common cloud regions that are roughly the same for all
the supported cloud providers.

- `us-east` - United States of America, East.
- `us-west` - United States of America, West.
- `eu-north` - Europe, North.
- `eu-west` - Europe, West.

### Cloud-specific

> In addition to generic sizes, it's possible to specify any cloud region

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to generic regions, it's possible to specify any cloud region
```

Author: Ouch!

supported by the underlying cloud provider.

#### Amazon Web Services

> - `{region}` - Any cloud-specific region, like `us-east-1`.
> 
> See https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regions_az for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `{region}` - Any [AWS region](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regions_az) (e.g. `us-east-1`).
```

#### Google Cloud Platform

> - `{zone}` - Any cloud-specific **zone** — not region — like `us-east1-a`.
> 
> See https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `{zone}` - Any [GCP **zone**](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones) (not region) (e.g. `us-east1-a`).
```

#### Microsoft Azure

> - `{region}` - Any cloud-specific region, like `eastus`.
> 
> See https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/geographies for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `{region}` - Any [Azure region](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/global-infrastructure/geographies) (e.g. `eastus`).
```

### Kubernetes

> The `region` attribute will be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `region` attribute is ignored.
```

> ## Quirks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Known Issues
```

Author: Kernel device trees use the word “quirks” for this kind of outliers and everybody is happy. 🤷🏼‍♂️ Still, “known issues” is clearer.

### Kubernetes

#### Region attribute

> Setting the `region` attribute is considered undefined behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting the `region` attribute results in undefined behaviour.
```
